
clhelp <dg>
afflictions        alchemist          alchemistg
bard               bardg              basicskills
blademaster        blademasterg       charts
classcures         classstyles        combatbasics
conscripting       dawnbladementors   defences
depthswalker       dragon             earthlord
equipment          groupcombatbasics  hazards
instantkills       jester             jesterg
magi               magig              monk
monkg              paladin            palading
priest             priestg            ranged
runewarden         runewardeng        serpent
serpentg           shaman             shamang
students           survival           totems
trapsandother      welcome



----- CLHELP STUDENTS ----

Steps listed with a * after the number are only required for members of
The Dawnblade.

STUDENTS
========

1*. Obtain a Dawnblade mentor.

7. Review CLHELP COMBATBASICS and learn the required contents.
Discussing the concepts with a Dawnblade member who understands your
class is highly recommended, as the answers are not contained within the
scroll - merely the questions you should learn the answers to.

9. Review CLHELP RANGED, CLHELP AFFLICTIONS, CLHELP SURVIVAL, and CLHELP
TRAPSANDOTHER and be familar with their contents.

10. Review CLHELP BASICSKILLS and CLHELP GROUPCOMBATBASICS and learn the
minimum required skills.

12. Pass an interview with a Dawnblade Master on the concepts in the
scrolls.

Upon passing this interview, a student will be assigned the position of
Advanced Student in the Dawnguard. This serves as one of the
requirements for Dawnblades to graduate to House Rank 2 (Aspirant).



ADVANCED STUDENTS
=================

13. Obtain level 70.

14. Read CLHELP <yourclass>G and understand the contents, and begin an
initial read of CLHELP <yourclass>. CLHELP <yourclass> teaches you more
about your class and its various kill paths. You will need to use one of
these kill paths in the future steps as an Advanced Student.

15. Learn how to chart a kill path for your class, based on the concept
and method detailed in CLHELP CHARTS. This process will allow you to
gain a greater understanding of the underlying principles of combat, and
learn how to execute a proper offense. This chart should be recorded in
a letter, ready to be shown to a Dawnblade Master in the next step.

16. Demonstrate to a Dawnblade Master the ability to follow target calls
in a party and attack the called target appropriately, as well as a
ranged attack of the sort that would be useful in group combat (for
example: archery or throwing bombs).

17. Perform a demonstration of what you have learned on a Dawnblade
Master. You are expected to do what you can with what abilities you
have, and demonstrate the kill path charted in the previous step. If you
are tri-transed, you are expected to slay the Master, while he or she is
not fighting back. If the Master is particularly difficult to slay, the
Master may deem your prowess sufficient to pass without slaying him or
her.

Upon passing this demonstration, an Advanced Student will be promoted to
the rank of Dawnguard, and will have completed their formal training
within the Institute. This serves as one of the requirements for
Dawnblades to graduate to House Rank 3 (Oathsworn). Dawnguards are
welcomed to remain in the Institute, so they may share their experience
and assist new students, as well as continue their own training.

NOTE: Students with notably advanced combat skills may, at the
discretion of the Guardian of the Blades or the Argent Hand, be allowed
to immediately perform a combat demonstration (as per the final step,
detailed above). If this demonstration is successful, such exceptional
students will be immediately promoted to the rank of Dawnguard.

