
Composed by: Sybilla on or about the 19th of Lupar, 659 AF.

This update was composed by Arditi.

As you grow older and stronger, you may find yourself to be the target
of thieves and cut-purses. Eventually someone will attempt to steal from
you and if you are unprepared, you may find yourself quickly liberated
of your gold and other possessions. However, though the attempt may be
inevitable, their success--and your loss is not.

The greatest weapon you possess to deter a thief is vigilance. Thieves
are, above all else, opportunists: The harder of a target you make
yourself, the greater the odds that a thief will dismiss you and move
on. By the same token, if you loiter on the highways or wilderness of
Sapience, appear brain-dead, and happen not to maintain the simple
defences that will hinder a thief, you might as well save him or her the
effort and hand them your wealth.

With that in mind, let us consider how a thief will actually target
-you-. As a former thief, this is the criteria by which I operated and I
believe it equally applicable to most thieves:

1. You are not standing within Ashtan or another city -- Notorious
thieves are likely enemied to all of the cities of Sapience save their
own and every city has at least some law against robbing their citizenry
-within- their walls. The effort of infiltrating an enemy city for the
chance to rob the young is usually not worth the time. If you happen to
be loitering near guards, all the better: The thief is forbidden to move
you in order to rob you, thus, any thieves enemied to the city you stand
in will not even attempt it. **However**, if you are hunting or out and
about on the highway, a skilled thief will take notice of this and begin
to watch you and your movements.

2. You are or appear mindless -- Check WHO. Notice the names at the top
of the list, while yours is at the very bottom. The people indicated by
WHO are ordered by their activity: The most recent are at the bottom,
while those less active are at the top. Those who remain at the top for
any appreciable length of time are likely completely mindless and
unaware of their surroundings: A prime target for theft, as the target
will likely not put up any resistance and the thief can take his or her
time in figuring out exactly how best to rob you.

3. Your inventory is immediately appraisable -- The use of a 'shimmering
orb', available from any enchanter or shops selling such wares, will
prevent people from APPRAISE-ing your inventory. With APPRAISE, the
thief can learn not only what you are holding, but exactly how to target
such items. With such an orb, all a would-be thief will see is the
distracting sight of the orb. While this is not an exact defence, it
will hinder the would-be robber's efforts.

4. You do not have the SELFISHNESS defence -- Without the use of
SELFISHNESS in Survival (a paltry sum of lessons), your entire inventory
is exposed to the pickpocketing abilities of thieves. With SELFISHNESS,
a thief must first force you via hypnosis to become more generous before
he can extract any of your valuables. This process takes time and is
easily interruptible.

So your absolute worst case scenario for being a target is to be
mindless outside of Ashtan (or another city) without a shimmering orb or
SELFISHNESS: By avoiding some or all of these pitfalls, you can make
yourself a less attractive target. Remember, the thief can only rob you
if you grant them the opportunity.


------------------------------------------------------------------------

The next issue to address is how to prevent theft should your awareness
and vigilance fail you. Again, simple precautions can create complex
puzzles for the thief to figure out and only the most truly dedicated
will spend a day or so probing you for assailable weaknesses.

1. Always maintain SELFISHNESS -- By always maintaining SELFISHNESS via
a reflex, you can deter -most- thieves. Simply train your reflexes to
put SELFISHNESS back up whenever you feel yourself becoming generous.
When you actually need to give something to someone, allow yourself the
brief moment to conduct your business and then return to being a greedy
git. If a thief has to work in a very limited window to extract your
belongings, it may save your wealth.

2. Keep your gold in a non-obvious container -- A thief will typically
attempt to force you to get your gold from a pack or kitbag, as these
are the most common containers. Putting your valuables into more exotic
containers can foil the thief who did not spend enough time studying
your person. For best results, combine this with a shimmering orb.

3. Don't carry more gold than you have to -- A thief can only pickpocket
what's in your pockets. If you must acquire great sums of wealth,
consider depositing what you need into the bank: If you need it later,
withdraw it. The small transaction fee for withdrawing your money is
worth the security.

4. Focus on coins or sovereigns, not gold -- A common trick used by
thieves is to surreptitiously slip a bar of gold into your inventory,
then force you to retrieve your gold from your pack. When one
immediately recognizes the theft attempt, they may then attempt to put
their gold into their pack by reflex: This places the gold BAR into the
pack, not the coins. Without proper attentiveness, this may lead to
disaster. Instead, train your reflexes to put your COINS or SOVEREIGNS
into your container. This will leave the decoy bar in your hands and
your wealth in your pocket. Adding the step of putting the gold bar into
your RIFT will also foil this technique.

5. Re-wear your belongings -- The most trained of thieves can, with a
limited amount of success, attempt to pilfer a single item you carry. In
some cases, a thief may attempt to get you to remove your pack and then
try to lift it from your person: Should you find yourself disrobing your
valuables, good use of reflexes can have you slide right back into them.


------------------------------------------------------------------------

These simple defences will deter most thieves, at least long enough for
you to flee the area and get back to somewhere safer. However, as stated
above, your best defence is awareness of your surroundings. The
following are a few indicators that you are in danger of being robbed.
Note that this is not all inconclusive, and the greatest of thieves will
offer you no indication of their presence until they begin the robbery:

1. Your ENTOURAGE shows 'a ghostly presence' -- This indicates that a
Serpent is shadowing you. If you see this, move quickly out of the area:
A Serpent cannot follow you -and- hypnotize/pickpocket you at the same
time. If you are able to EVADE, LEAP, FLY, or any other slightly more
intricate movement technique, try doing so.

2. You see someone sip a vial or their aura of rebounding goes down when
you didn't realize they were in the room -- Hypnosis is both an
aggressive action (negating the aura) and costly in terms of mana (hence
the sip). If you see either of these signs, check your ENTOURAGE and
begin moving out of the area.

3. You notice someone trying to hypnotize you -- To be fair, this is a
good indicator that you're either about to be robbed or assassinated. As
with above, move out of the area.

4. Someone snaps their fingers in front of you -- This is your last
chance to defend yourself from theft: If you see this step, the thief
has already set you up and is eyeing your belongings. Move quickly out
of the area and keep an eye on your valuables: Re-wear belongings, put
your coins back into your containers, in-rift gold bars, etc.


------------------------------------------------------------------------

While this small primer will not prevent -all- theft, it will prevent
the most painful kind--that which was caused by carelessness or
absent-mindedness. Pay attention, keep your reflexes sharp, don't dally
in unsafe areas, and you'll sleep more soundly knowing your hard-earned
wealth is yours and yours alone.

