Composed by: Jadys on or about the 11th of Scarlatan, 756 AF.


City Defense

Inevitably, you will be called upon to defend the city against invaders.
You should know what is expected of you and be ready to adequately carry
out orders before an actual need for defense arises. The following is a
guide to help you prepare.

Before we are raided:

- Stock up on herbs/minerals and all elixirs/salves.
- Reink any tattoos low on charges or missing.
- Check that you have any class specific tools you may need and know how
to announce important information to the party. An example would be a
pre-sketched totem and ample inks for runes for a runewarden and the
ability to inform the party when a totem is propped and dropped.
- Be familiar with common raid terms such as LoS, melee, AoE, beckoning
and back beckon, to name a few (CLHELP RAIDTERMS).
- Know what to do if you are being radianced or displaced.

When invaders are in:

- It will be announced to the city and a defense party will be formed.
If you do not get an invite, ask for one.
- Once the party is formed, the defense leader will ask you to report to
a specific location to group and follow. You should do so promptly and
not delay the defense. Some common rooms for grouping are the
battlements, parapets, or before the gates of Ashtan. Know where these
rooms are.
- Never try to defend on your own. If you are defending, you are
expected to join the group.

Once you arrive at the group:

- You should begin putting up all your available defenses, including a
starburst tattoo.
- If you have escape abilities, such as raido or fulcrum, make sure
these are ready.
- When the enemy list is announced, enemy each invader on it. Some
abilities require you to have the target enemied to be effective.
- If you have any defensive abilities that can be used on allies, such
as runes, this is the time to do so.

While everyone is grouping and preparing:

- The leader will give instructions. You need to listen closely. This is
a hectic time and things will be moving quickly. You will be instructed
on the plan of attack, which can be LoS (line of sight), damage or AoE
(area of effect), afflictions based or a combination of all three.
- It is your responsibility to know which of your abilities to use at
any given time. There will be occasions when the leader will ask for a
specific ability to be used. It is important for the success of the
group for you to follow this order carefully.
- Watch for the announcement of the order of enemy targets. You will see
something similar to the following that indicates target order: Farrah >
Atalkez > Xaden. The group leader will be counting on you to target
properly.

Before moving to engage:

- The leader will call for balance. This means that you should stop
doing anything that causes you to be off equilibrium or balance. The
group needs to move as a whole, with none left behind.
- If blocking is needed, the direction will be announced, and if you are
able to block, do so. More than one blocker is needed. Make sure you can
unblock promptly when the leader asks. Blocking and unblocking quickly
is important to the defense.
- Pay attention to party. This cannot be stressed enough. Last minute
changes to target order or strategy are common, and you need to be aware
of and adjust to these new orders.

If the plan is melee:

- We will rush the enemy. You should be hitting the first target upon
movement into the room occupied by the raiders. Continue hitting,
following the order of targets, until the enemies are cleared.

If the order is for LoS:

- We will attack from a few rooms away. Use the appropriate ability for
LoS attacking, if your class has one.
- If you are targetted, play defense. We don't want to give them an easy
sanction. You might shield, fly if outdoors (especially if being
sniped), or move to a safe room.
- If you die, you will likely need to pray. Once back, put your defenses
up and re-join the group as quickly as possible.
- Do not renounce grace until you are in a safe place and fully deffed.

Do not expect to be perfect during your first or even first few
defenses. Some things such as situational awareness, reflex execution,
confidence, survival, kills, and following a fast-moving party will
improve with practice. You will also learn the differences between raid
leaders and what each expects and be able to adapt easily. Familiarity
and preparedness will alleviate a lot of the anxiety you may feel as a
new defender.

Related scrolls:

CLHELP <your class> (class scrolls are in progress)
CLHELP RAIDTERMS
